(STEP ONE) RETAIN MOISTURE: Even if you have low porosity hair, 4C hair needs to be kept moisturized. The kinks and coils of 4C curls prevent the distribution 
of sebum (natural oil produced by your scalp) throughout your hair. This allows your hair to dry out faster than other curl patterns, so you need to take extra 
precautions to keep your hair moisturized. Find a good moisturizer AND a good sealant. Oils like coconut oil and olive oil, and creams like Shea butter are 
effective at sealing moisture in your hair. If you wear a protective style, don’t forget to moisturize regularly!

(STEP TWO) SHAMPOO MINDFULLY: Yes, you still need to shampoo regularly to keep your scalp and hair clean- but you can lengthen the time between washes to 2, 3, 
or even 4 weeks. Avoid shampoos that contain sulfates or any of these other harmful ingredients, and opt for a mild, sulfate-free shampoo like this Cleansing 
Avocado Shampoo. If your hair gets dirty more often, alternate shampoo with cowash or follow shampoo with an apple cider vinegar rinse. Wash your hair in sections 
to prevent tangles.

(STEP THREE) DETANGLE: This is extra important for 4a,b and c girls because the tight curl pattern of your hair can cause hairs to curl and coil around each other, 
causing tangles. Tangles lead to breakage, which hinders growth. Detangle regularly and gently, using a wide-toothed comb on damp hair (don’t use a brush!) 
Use conditioners to add slip and help with the process. When you find knots, don’t yank- use your fingers to gently pull hairs out of the knot.

(STEP FOUR) DEEP CONDITION: While we recommend most customers deep condition every 2 weeks, 4C hair, in particular, thrives with weekly deep conditioning treatments. 
This will keep your hair healthy, bouncy, and shiny, and will prevent snagging and tangles. We recommend NaturAll Club's Avocado Deep Conditioner, which is a 
completely natural option: It provides moisture, slip, nourishment, and strength!

(STEP FIVE) AVOID OVERSTYLING: Styling products dry out your hair, build up on your scalp, weigh down your hair, etc. Touching and styling your hair excessively 
can also lead to breakage. Explore styles that require less styling products, or alternate between high and low manipulation styles to give your hair a break.

(STEP SIX) STYLE WITH SHRINKAGE IN MIND: Shrinkage can be frustrating because it keeps you from seeing growth, and it can also make your hair more susceptible to 
tangles and single strand knots. You can explore heat-free styles that stretch your hair, such as twist outs, braid outs, and bantu knots. But don't forget to embrace 
and celebrate shrinkage, and have fun with it! 4C hair lends itself to so many styling options.


