(STEP ONE) Cleansing:
When I was new to the Curly Girl method I though I needed to stop using any kind of shampoo and only co-wash my hair. Very soon I noticed my curls starting to hang
 down, losing their volume and looking kind of limp – a result of being over-conditioned. That’s when I decided I still needed a shampoo - the sulfate free Curl Junkie
 Gentle Cleansing Shampoo. It has ever since been my all-time favorite shampoo. I only use it on my hair close to the scalp and massage it in without bringing it 
to the ends as they usually lack more moisture than my roots.

(STEP TWO) Moisturise!: After rinsing out the shampoo I use different kinds of conditioners to spoil my hair with enough moisture. Whenever my hair feels dry (I notice it being
 dry when it has gotten frizzy after my last hair wash) I use a richer conditioner like the Mop Top Daily Conditioner or the EDEN Bodyworks JojOba Monoi Deep
 Conditioner. I know you’re supposed to apply a deep conditioner for about 30 minutes, but as my hair usually isn’t lacking a lot of moisture I just leave it in my
 curls for about 5 minutes. The days on which my hair feels quite moisturized I’m only using the Curl Junkie Curl Assurance Smoothing Lotion and even wash it out.
 Yes – I rinse out the leave-in conditioner, because I really can’t deal with leaving in any conditioner causing my curls to stay wet super-long.

By raking in whichever conditioner I choose is the right one, I detangle my curls – starting at the ends moving up to the roots until I can’t feel any more knots.
 I try not to pull my curls too much, but separate the single hair strands involved in one knot with my fingers. This does take up some time, but it definitely 
helps prevent hair breakage. If my hair is tangled badly I use the Kinky Curly Knot Today to detangle it (the best product to detangle your curls gently!).

(STEP THREE) Drying:I’ve noticed that starting to blow-dry my curls when they’re still quite wet leads to more frizz as diffusing takes longer.
 Which is why my next step is also aimed at getting my curls drier before diffusing: I wrap an old t-shirt around my head (plopping) and leave it this way for
 about 10 minutes. When I take the t-shirt off my head I still use it to scrunch my curls again (now with the t-shirt, not with my hands) getting them even drier.

Then I finally start diffusing my curls upside-down until they’re about 80-90% dry. I prefer blow-drying my hair upright for the last 5 minutes as to see what my 
curls will look like when they’re dry. I always use medium heat and low air to blow-dry my curls with a diffusor to prevent them from getting frizzy.
